Monolayer: Complex hierarchies, masks, tiling and writing to files
------------------------------------------------------------------

In this example, we'll cover assembling more complex hierarchies of
components using masks, tiling and how to output systems to files. To
illustrate these concepts, let's build an alkane monolayer on a
crystalline substrate.

First, let's build our monomers and functionalized them with a silane
group which we can then attach to the substrate:

.. code:: python

    import mbuild as mb

    from mbuild.examples import Alkane
    from mbuild.components.small_groups.silane import Silane


    class AlkylSilane(mb.Compound):
        """A silane functionalized alkane chain with one Port. """
        def __init__(self, chain_length):
            super(AlkylSilane, self).__init__()

            alkane = Alkane(chain_length, cap_end=False)
            self.add(alkane, 'alkane')
            silane = Silane()
            self.add(silane, 'silane')
            mb.equivalence_transform(self.alkane, self.alkane.down, self.silane.up)

            # Hoist silane port to AlkylSilane level.
            self.add(silane.down, 'down', containment=False)

.. code:: python

    AlkylSilane(5).visualize()

The ``Alkane`` example uses the ``polymer`` tool to combine ``CH2`` and
``CH3`` repeat units. You also have the option to cap the front and back
of the chain or to leave a ``CH2`` group with a dangling port. The
``Silane`` compound is a Si(OH)2 group with two ports facing out from
the central Si. Lastly, we combine ``alkane`` with ``silane`` and adding
a label to ``AlkylSilane`` which points to ``silane.down`` so that we
can reference it later.

Now let's create a substrate to which we can later attach our monomers:

.. code:: python

    import mbuild as mb
    from mbuild.components.surfaces.betacristobalite import Betacristobalite

    surface = Betacristobalite()
    tiled_surface = mb.TiledCompound(surface, n_tiles=(2, 3, 1), kind="tiled_surface")

Here we've imported a beta-cristobalite surface from our component
library. The ``TiledCompound`` tool allows you replicate any
``Compound`` in the x-, y- and z-directions by any number of times - 2,
3 and 1 for our case.

Next, let's create our monomer and a hydrogen atom that we'll place on
unoccupied surface sites:

.. code:: python

    from mbuild.components.atoms.H import H
    alkylsilane = AlkylSilane(chain_length=10)
    hydrogen = H()

Then we need to tell mBuild how to arrange the chains on the surface.
This is accomplished with the "mask" tools. Every mask is just a
collection of points. There are all kinds of masks like spherical, 2D,
regular, irregular etc. When you use the ``apply_mask`` command, you
effectively superimpose the mask onto the host compound, mBuild figures
out what the closest ports are to the mask points and then attach copies
of the guest onto the binding sites identified by the mask:

.. code:: python

    mask = mb.grid_mask_2d(8, 8)  # Evenly spaced, 2D grid of points.

    # Attach chains to specified binding sites. Other sites get a hydrogen.
    mb.apply_mask(host=tiled_surface, guest=alkylsilane, mask=mask, backfill=hydrogen)

Also note the ``backfill`` optional argument which allows you to place a
different compound on any unused ports. In this case we want to backfill
with hydrogen atoms on every port without a chain.

And that's it! Check out ``examples.alkane_monolayer`` for the fully
wrapped class.

.. code:: python

    tiled_surface.visualize()  # Warning: may be slow in IPython notebooks

.. code:: python


